# CSE3120-Project
SHIP-CAPTAIN-CREW game

## Requirements to Run
This program Uses tabulate to display the dice.
Please use: ```pip install tabulate``` to install tabulate onto your device by first opening your cmd, then in python type `pip install tabulate`.
## Extra Features
1. Displaying the Players' Dice in a tabulate table
2. Including a keep score feature that tallies the Player's scores

## Reflection
### Software Development Process
When coding this multiday project, I learned the true importance of planning/brainstorming/flowcharting. In my opinion, this was the hardest multiday project in terms of complexity of the logic. In my game.py file, I have a large section commented out where I planned out the main logic of the code and after many failed attempts of making the logic, I found that planning it out helped me succeed. 

### What I learnt about programming
I learned that the difference between a good programmer vs an average one is efficiency. In my code, I picked the most inefficient way to program the game. I had a series of if/else statements that go through every single combination of the rolls. Ideally I would have used recursion and recursively implemented a function that would yield a similar result as my current method. The way I programmed my code took up a lot of time as it physically takes up more lines of code, but also because of how many trials I had to go through. If I were an employer or in a higher management level position in the tech industry, I would choose a future software engineer in that company based on how well they are able to come up with the same solution. Being a "better" software developer is aided by one's proficiency in being able to come up with a creative solution, enhanced skills in math and statistics, as well as ability to collaborate with others.

### What I learnt about myself
I learnt that I am "Business-Major Lazy" and not "Engineering-Major Lazy". First I need to define both terms. Typically, Engineers are lazy in the sense that they know they are capable of completing the task, which leads them to procrastinate because they know/they think "It'll be easy; It won't take me that long; I can do it later." After a period of procrastination, Engineering-Majors will complete that task to absolute perfection and down to the most miniscule detail, even if it costs them their sleep (I'm saying this based on stereotypes, ofcourse there are people who are exceptions). Business-Majors on the other hand are lazy in the sense that they will complete a task down to the required minimum they need. For example, if they only need an 80%, they will try hard enough for them to get that 80% and nothing more because they have set a predefined goal. And because they don't have to try as hard now, they might as well just get done with the task now (again not all Business majors are like this, I'm basing my opinion on stereotypes, exceptions exist). When I went into this multiday project, I read the instructions, assumed it would be an easy task, and procrastinated. I actually started my project the day after it was due. This was my "Engineering-Major Mind" talking. However, after I started my project, I realized just how difficult it was and how unlike it was to any other project I had done. I hit many speedbumps while coding this project and when programming the main logic of the game, I was frustrated to the point where I started calculating my grade if I didn't fulfil all the requirements and instead just handed in my code the way it was working, with my UML Tables and my Flowchart! And then my Engineering-Major Mind kicked in again and decided to finish the project, however, I didn't do it the way it was ideally intented to be done. I used zero recursion and instead I coded every single possibility using if/else statements. This was my "Business-Major Mind", I got the job done but to a lower standard then ideal (the 80% example I referenced earlier). In the end, I'm glad I discovered this "Business-Major Lazy" side of me and I realized that not everything has to be perfect. I also found that a balance of being "Engineering-Major Lazy" and "Business-Major Lazy" led me to finish my project. This helps me further appreciate the role that engineering and more specifically STEM has in a well rounded person who might be going into a Business related field, like I am. It has helped me understand the importance of staying well versed in Computer Science despite pursuing a career in Accounting.  